4/17
Security Lecture

ethical and legal issues not included on exam

Virus vs other malware
	click on it, it is a SELF-REPLICATING piece of code that attaches itself to other programs
	you can get a virus just by visiting a website, may automatically download something! :O

Anti-Virus/Anti-Malware works by...	
	blacklisting approach: search for matching malicious patterns in file aka a virus signature
	whitelist approach (like apple does w downloading stuff) HOWEVER a malware can copy a compromised certificate and pretend to be a trusted source for download
	
	anti-virus software -> negatives?
		government backdoor
		false sense of security
		it can be given elevated privilege, if its exploited, the malware gets cascaded privilege

Worms! Don't need a host or human interaction, replicates across the network
Why use worms?
	They're fast! You don't have to wait for human interaction and can go across the network by itself
	it can do denial of service ie: Sammys Myspace worm
	increase damage
	harder to trace back to source location as well
Elements of a Worm:
1. gain access to target system- exploit a vulnerability of the target system
2. propogating- transfer worm to the target system
3. Look for new victims! Neighboring hosts
	search etc/hosts to find other hosts, target email addresses sent out from servers, random IPs, network neighborhoods
4. Scan for same vulnerabilities in neighbors
	if same vulnerabilties, exploit it and spread
5. execute the payload
	consume bandwidth, denial of service, create backdoor, etc..other stuff

Basic Goal: spread to as many people as possible and then execute payload

Morris Worm: used weak passwords to get access to other computers

Backdoor = allows attacker to gain access to program where they can manipulate the program/take control of it
	backdoor runs with user permission
	needs to be executed with root privilege 

Netcat: can be used as a backdoor program
	Listen mode and client mode
	client mode(attacker) initiates incoming connection with listen mode(victim) but if theres a firewall, its blocked
		BUT if you have victim initiating outgoing connection with client, it would be ok

Checksum for when you download site
download program, hash it and make sure it matches the checksum
once you download program, just check to make sure its not a trojan horse

virustotal.com, you have lots of engines to check a particular file, you can use a URL too!




